So it was kind of a shock to leave Vietnam where we
were sitting and waiting on aircraft to pick us up
that we didn't know whether or not it was going to
get off the ground or not and hoping that it didn't
get blowed away before we got out of the country.
all of a sudden in 16 hours you're back in
civilization. So it was a quick change that was a
culture shock to you. The culture was kind of quite
different in Vietnam. Yeah, quite different. It
was a pretty filthy place. Lots of rats, lots of
black plague,
lots of infection, lots of You know, wounds didn't
heal good there because of the infection in the
field.
People were morally, you know, Vietnamese people
didn't have a whole lot to live for, the majority,
unless you were upper class, you know. The French.
Yeah. And they, you know, women used the bathroom
on the roads, you know, in front of everybody, you
know. Men did too. It didn't make any difference.
You know, so there, it was kind of, culture was kind
of bad.
So, we had mama sons, took care of our stuff, you
know, washed our clothes. Of course, they washed
our clothes with rice soap and beat them with rocks
so they didn't last a long time, you know. And, uh,
But we paid them $5 a month. And they'd polish our
boots and wash our clothes and anything we needed
to cook, whatever, for $5. So later on, after you'd
been there a while and you were able to get some
food, they cooked it for you. Yeah, well, they'd
cook theirs if you could eat it. Oh, I see. They'd
cook their monkey. Back to the monkeys, right?
Well, you know, I never saw the monosons eating
meat. They ate mostly plants of some kind. I don't
know. I guess something like spinach on that
order, greens of some kind. Stonk. Oh, it wasn't
spinach then. No, probably not. Did you go into
Saigon? Yeah. What was it like? Saigon was filthy,
just like I just described. Really? Yeah. Well,
that was kind of a modern city. It was supposed to be
the Paris of the Orient. That's what I thought.
That's why I heard that. But it wasn't. It was
filthy. Well, have you ever heard about Paris?
Yeah. Paris is not your cleanest thing either.
It's pretty filthy in Paris. Saigon. The problem
in Saigon, most guys would tell you that, a lot of
guys would tell you that they'd rather be in the
jungle where you shot whoever came out than to be in
Saigon where you got shot because you didn't know.
Lots of people got killed in Saigon, terrorists
killing people every day, gobs of them. I'll tell
you, I believe the 716th MPs in Saigon was involved
in as much or more combat than anybody in Vietnam.
Their headquarters got hit every day by mortar
rounds. From VC. Yeah, their living quarters.
every day. Did they have any Air Force security
placement there? Oh, yeah. Lots. I was going to ask
you a while ago approximately how many you had
towed. We had about a thousand. You had a thousand
that drove at Gardner Bay? Yeah. We had security
patrols, then we had machine gun emplacements,
and then we had towers. And we pulled those
ditties, you know, we shared those ditties, and
we'd We would police until 11 o'clock curfew, and
then at 11 o'clock we'd go into machine gun bunkers
and guard the perimeter.
Sometimes you'd be in a machine gun jeep,
patrolling mobile.
We traded 10 cots one time for an APC, an armored
personnel carrier, and it had two 30-caliber
machine guns on it. And it was pretty wild. Nobody
knew how to operate the machine guns because it was
remote control. We drove it around for a while. Did
it scare the Vietnamese? Oh, yeah, they liked it.
They liked that thing. But that's what you did.
Well,
I think it's about time we wound this up. But could
you... First of all, but before we do, I'd like to
know how you felt after you came back to the United
States. Very, very bitter. And hearing, but how
did you feel when you heard the news and you knew it
was wrong? Is that what made you so bitter? What was
wrong? When you knew they were lying to the
American people, the politicians were lying to
the American people about what was going on, and
you couldn't say anything about it, you couldn't
do anything about it? I don't know how I felt. You
said you were bitter. I was bitter because of the
way the American people did the veterans while
they were overseas. Up until just a few years ago, I
was very, very bitter. I still feel that the
American people killed as many GIs in Vietnam as
the enemy did. I feel like that they were
responsible for a lot of the the deaths, the
American deaths in Vietnam. Are you aware that
there's only about two paragraphs in the history
books nowadays concerning the Vietnam War and
some that's not even in there? I guess probably
because it's such an embarrassment. Do you think
that even in spite of whether it's the fact that
it's an embarrassment that the American children
should study about it? Sure, I think they should. I
think they should know the truth about it. I think
it's wrong for them to to get away with a bunch of
lies that shields a lot of that stuff. No one will
ever convince me that the American position, the
majority, or I feel like the majority, the
feelings of the soldier in Vietnam did not kill a
lot, a lot of soldiers, American soldiers. and
caused their death in Vietnam. You know, there was
a lot of anti-war movements
going on in the United States. Were you aware that
this was just a small minority of the student
population, or even the population of the United
States? No. We were never told. We always heard
about all the demonstrations. We were never told
about anything good. Well, they were a very small
minority. The good or the bad? The people who were
demonstrators, the anti-war demonstrators,
were a very small minority of the United States.
See, we were told, you know, the way it was
projected to us was different. I think a lot of the
reason that people felt the way they did, people
that didn't demonstrate it felt bad about
Vietnam. I don't think they understood about
Vietnam. And I know that's still a fact. And like
you said, they need to know. There's so many people
now, teenagers, whatnot, that have no idea, don't
have a clue what went on. A lot of them think, well,
if you were stationed in Saigon, you never saw
anything. You just said differently, didn't you?
Oh, yeah, just like 716th MPs. The Tet Offensive,
Saigon was leveled. You know, the Tet Offensive,
American fighters strafed Saigon. You know, I
mean, blew it all to pieces. They had to, but they
blew it all to pieces. Tonsnoot was right outside
of Saigon. I know personally because of guys that I
left there that came to where I was... That fought
for 16 solid days. You know, and right there. It
didn't matter where you were at there. People
don't understand that. Lots of people, you know,
don't understand that. That there wasn't, and
it's because of World War II and whatnot, that
there wasn't a front, you know. a place where you
could fall back. This is the front. We'll go up
there and then we'll fall back. You're safe. No
place in Vietnam was safe is what you're saying.
No. No place was safe. Well, I think that the
comments that you've made and the information
that you have passed on going into the archives of
Texas A&M University We'll give the historians
ammunition to, if you will use the word
ammunition, to, because we're the ones that fight
to get things put in history textbooks. Right. I
understand that. The United States, this is not
the only thing the United States has liked to cover
up. They like to cover up a lot of the racism in the
South. Mm-hmm. And lots of things they'd like to
cover up, but historians keep bringing it out. And
I guess we're kind of a group of people that are kind
of pioneers, just as people in space. I'd like to
think that we're doing our thing just as much as
people in space towards getting an unknown that's
right here on Earth. across to the people. I intend
as a teacher to teach my students about the Vietnam
War from all aspects of it because I believe that
they should understand it.
Let me ask you one last question. After some of the
statements you made, I was wondering how you feel
about every young person, girl or boy, being
required to spend at least two years in the service
after they graduate from high school? Do I think
they should? How do you feel about that? Girl and
boy? I don't think a girl should be. I think a guy
should be. Why not the girls? The girls are asking
for liberate, they want to be liberated. Well, if
they want to be, then let them. I don't know. I'm not
saying send them into combat. I'm just saying put
them in the military to learn this discipline that
you talked about. I don't know that I'm in favor of
the girls doing it. Maybe that's just because I was
raised that way. I don't know. But I think the draft
ought to be back. If not, I think a guy would be
better off to go Four years out of my life, I gave at
the wrong time, I feel like. I feel like I should
have done it from the time I was 20 until I was 25, or
almost 25. I think those were important years in my
life. Well, that's why I said two years instead of
four years. Right, I agree. Before that, it was two
years. Now, the Air Force, in order to volunteer in
the other militaries, but the Army was only
taking, you had to go four years, but the Army was
doing two years. I think two years is right, and I
think that they should go right after they get out
of high school. And I think our military would be
better. I mean, it's proven fact. There's no
question about it. that the military was better
when the draft was there because you got
everybody. Some of those guys that was really good
and really smart didn't go back to civilian jobs
and make careers out of the military because they
lacked it or something. But now, you never get
those guys to start with, so they never get exposed
to any of it. I think the discipline is important. I
think our... Population needs the discipline. I
mean, I think maybe that's contributed to drugs
somewhat, too. I don't know. But I think it should
be, I think the draft, if nothing else, they should
reinstitute the draft. I think that threat, it was
hanging over me. There was jobs I couldn't get
because I hadn't been drafted. I hadn't been in the
service. They wouldn't even talk to me. And I think
that creates jobs. for people. I think there'd be a
lot more employment, you know, available if ever a
kid that come out of high school had the draft
looking at him. And he had to do that survey
obligation before. You know, most guys, when I
came out of the high school, I didn't have a clue
what I was going to do. And most guys don't. Most
people don't. No. And that two years would be very
valuable in deciding that, you know. Yeah, I think
it's important. Well, I'd like to thank you,
Ronnie, very much for your time. This has been a
time away from your family. It's been my pleasure.
And I do appreciate it, and hopefully what you've
said tonight, and I believe it will help the
future, make the future safer for your children
and your grandchildren. Well, I hope so. Thank
you. Thank you.